#summary Developer Revenue Analysis

= Introduction =

Note: Requires Android 2.2 (Froyo)

An essential app for independent Android developers and small/medium publishers.  Integrates data from Android Market with Google Checkout to provide sales insight (see screenshots below).

  * Get notified of low-rated Market comments
  * Plot revenue across apps over time
  * Quantify how comments affect sales
  * Observe effect of app pricing on sales

http://chart.apis.google.com/chart?cht=qr&chs=350x350&chl=market://search%3Fq%3Dpname:com.kostmo.market.revenue

= Usage =

This app is best suited for developers with less than ~100K app purchases, since caching data from Google Checkout may take a long time, depending on sales volume.  If synching a large batch of records, you may want to plug in and find wifi.  Caching the ~3K sales records used in the screen grabs below took about two and a half minutes.

Using the app entails:

  # Specifying a date range to plot
  # Letting the app download records from Google Checkout
  # Consolidating (automatically or manually) different versions of the same app
  # Viewing/sharing the plot

Only transactions marked as "Charged" (as opposed to "Cancelled" or other statuses) on Google Checkout are counted.

Another feature of the app allows you to specify a "rating" threshold for each app to be notified about.  If a user leaves a comment with a rating at or below the threshold, you will be alerted in the notification area.  You can then click the notification to read the latest comments.

[http://market.android.com/details?id=com.kostmo.market.revenue Here's a direct market link if you're browsing on a phone.]

= Limitations =

== Android Device IDs ==
To interface with the Android Market through its API, you must have a valid device ID.  If your phone has been rooted and/or has gone through a factory reset, it is possible for the phone's device ID to one not recognized by the market.  If this happens you will need to manually input a valid device ID into the application.

A device's ID can be obtained through the following code snippet:
{{{
String android_id = android.provider.Settings.Secure.getString(
	context.getContentResolver(),
	android.provider.Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID);
}}}

== Google Checkout countries ==

Not all countries support the Google Checkout API, and thus do not provide a "Merchant Item Key".  Developers from these countries are out of luck, for now.